MESSAGE for Waitlisted Students

Hello!

I know you are on the waitlist for the course and I want to let you know what
is going on.

First, I appreciate you have enrolled in my course and more importantly, that 
you want to learn chemistry and value that knowledge for your career aims
and goals, whether you are starting out on your career path or are in transition
from one career to another (hey, that has been me too!!)

I can't promise you anything with respect to getting in the course, but I have 
seen enrolled students change their minds and priorities and this opened up 
the chance for the waitlisted.

Here some things you should know while in the waitlist.

The last day to add a course is usually the Sunday of the fourth (4th) week
of the semester*. The District requires instructors report enrollment by 
a date called the Census Date, and waitlisted students cannot be added by that
date. So that means two weeks of the semester have passed.
I am going to refer to this as the Interim Period for the rest of this message.

In that time, enrolled students remaining in an enrolled status have a high 
likelihood of committing to the completion of the course. They will know enough
about the instructor and homework and quizzes (not the first midterm exam 
though) and have decided "I can do this!"

But there are also others who will drop and it may not even be because of the
course and/or the instructor. Priorities re-align as the days go by.

During this interim period in being on a waitlist, there are some disadvantages

* Lecture: There are 60 enrolled students and I think about 68 seats in the 
lecture room. In the two sections I have, I can see some but not all the 
waitlisted students will have to stand or sit on the floor (usually to the side)
if they take notes

* Laboratory: The laboratory only accommodates 30 students (a section) and 
unfortunately, waitlisted students are not allowed to participate in the 
laboratory session. In the first week, there is the lab safety contract and 
something called Experiment 0a which is about getting familiar with handling
lab equipment in reading and dispensing volumes, and there is Experiment 1a
about making measurements. I will have "make up" work you can do that will 
get you up to speed quickly and get you in the Canvas gradebook. It is in 
Week 4 that we start to do the real lab work, and by that time, you would be 
enrolled if possible.

* Canvas app use: As a waitlisted student, you have "Observer" status in the 
Canvas app. You can view Announcements, Modules, any discussions. You can use 
the Inbox to message. If you need to talk to the instructor, you will do so 
through regular email. 

So what do waitlisted students do who may eventually gain enrollment?

1. Record your attendance: this way, I know you are on the waitlist hoping to
enroll. You will record your student ID and Attendance Code on the Google 
Form (I control that, not the College). To be explained in lecture.

2. Take notes in lecture as you can, at least. You need to know this content 
for many things through the semester and for examinations

3. Read (follow along) the lab manual, which is freely available I believe with your observer status in Canvas.

==========

IMPORTANT!!! At the start of a semester, if you are waitlisted to enroll in 
any course, you should be checking your school email account (<yourname>@scccd.edu)
at least twice a day to see if your instructor and/or the system has sent you 
a message authorizing you to take the action to add the course. Just because 
you are waitlisted and an instructor gives add authorization, the student must 
take the action to actually add the course. Please always keep this in mind.

==========

The MESSAGE TO ADD THE COURSE

When a position opens and you get a message from me to ADD THE COURSE, you will
have about 24 hours after I send the message to doing the ADD in Self-Service.
(Yes, no need to add in-person; get online, log in, go to Self-Service, then 
add.)  If you fail to add as the 24 hour limit gets close, I will send another 
email to your school account to urge you to add the course, or I will have 
to revoke the add authorization and give it to the next student on the waitlist.

If you get a message to add the course and have changed your plans/mind, it 
would be appreciated if you let me know so that the next waitlisted student in 
the queue can be provided authorization.

==========

After Adding the COURSE, Being "In The System"

Once you are enrolled, you should have full access to Canvas to do work.
The process is not immediate though: Canvas does updates to its system 
10 times a day, 7 days a week, but the first update is 6 a.m. and the last 
update is 8 p.m.

More info: https://scccd.instructure.com/courses/56652/pages/new-waitlisted-role-in-canvas


* For Spring 2026, last day to ADD course online (using Self-Service) is 
1 February 2026


Mitch Halloran