
Identify each as a strong acid or a weak acid. Assume aqueous solutions.
HF
HCl
HC2O4

Identify each as a strong base or a weak base. Assume aqueous solutions.
NaOH

Al(OH)3

C4H9NH2

Write a chemical equation for the ionization of each acid and indicate whether it proceeds 100% to products or not.

HNO3

HNO2

HI3

Write a chemical equation for the ionization of each base and indicate whether it proceeds 100% to products or not.
NH3

(CH3)3N

Mg(OH)2

Write the balanced chemical equation for the reaction of each acid and base pair.

HCl + C5H5N

H2C2O4 + NH3

HNO2 + C7H9N

Write the balanced chemical equation for the reaction of each acid and base pair.

H3C5H5O7 + Mg(OH)2

HC3H3O3 + (CH3)3N

HBr + Fe(OH)3

Write the hydrolysis reaction that occurs, if any, when each salt dissolves in water.

K2SO3

KI

NH4ClO3

Which of the reactions below correctly shows the dissolution of NaNO3 in water?

When NH4NO2 dissolves in H2O, both ions hydrolyze. Write chemical equations for both reactions. Can you tell if the solution will be acidic or basic overall?
When pyridinium acetate (C5H5NHC2H3O2) dissolves in H2O, both ions hydrolyze. Write chemical equations for both reactions. Can you tell if the solution will be acidic or basic overall?


13. 
What is the relationship between the Ksp expressions for a chemical reaction and its reverse chemical reaction?


What is the relationship between the Kw value for H2O and its reverse chemical reaction?
For the equilibrium

list four stresses that serve to increase the amount of PCl5.
For the equilibrium

list four stresses that serve to increase the amount of NO2.
Does a very large Keq favor the reactants or the products? Explain your answer.
Is the Keq for reactions that favor reactants large or small? Explain your answer.
Write the Equilibrium Constant Expression for the following
N2 (g) + 3 H2 (g)  ⇌ 2 NH3 (g)

 
Write the equation for NaCl dissolving in water.
Write the equilibrium constant expression for NaCl dissolving in water. (Remember to leave out things that are not mixed or whose concentration remains constants- In this case, solids or liquids in the chemical equation.)
Solve for the solubility equilibrium constant of NaCl if the concentrations of a saturated solution are [Na+] = 6.14 M  and [Cl-] = 6.14 M


List at least five organs that can be imaged using radioactive isotopes.
Which radioactive emissions can be used therapeutically?
Which isotope is used in therapeutics primarily for its gamma ray emissions?
