Biochemistry Tutoring
1. Biomolecule structure/function 
2. Enzyme kinetics/mechanisms
3. Metabolic pathways & regulation
4. Techniques: PCR, sequencing, cloning

Check recent reviews:
1. CRISPR / genome editing
2. metabolomics, proteomics, structural biology
3. drug discovery and computational biology
4. PubMed review
5. Coursewar like MIT, Khan Academy

Diagnotic Tools
1. online quizzes / tests
2. r/biochemistry or Research Gate
3. Latest Lehninger or Berg's Biochemistryt
4. flashcards, apps (Quizlet)
5. Know PyMOL


https://doi.org/10.1515/hsz-2020-0214
Unity of biochemistry -- what is true of E coli must be true of elephants 
when it comes to biochemistry (J. Monod) based on Kluyver's content that 
core metabolic pathwyas are conserved between all life forms. Glycolysis,
TCA, carbon fixation might be same for higher eukaryotes, but not other 
organisms. Particularly for microorganisms there is great diversity with 
respect to carbon pathways.
Genetic redundancy -- paralogs of gene-encoding enzymes with distinct 
functions that can arise from gene duplication (hemoglobin and myoglobin)
functional degeneracy -- structural and evolutionarily distinct metabolic 
pathways conferring same function

Carbon fixation was thought to be done with CBB (formerly Calvin) Cycle but
both genetic and functional redundancy is identified in microbial autotrophy.
Genetic redundancy is seen with RubisCO that does the actual fixation step.
RubisCO can accept both CO2 and oxygen (latter is photorespiration). 
RubisCO does a tradeoff between CO2 fixation (for "speed") and "specificity"
to resolve and electrophile (CO2 or O2), set optimally for certain 
environmental conditions. Where bacteria have fluctating CO2 and O2, there
are RubisCO isoenzyme types (I: slow and specific) and II (fast and not
specific) that may enable expansion of the ecological niche. There is a 
type III transaldolase variant postulated for Thermodesulfobium acidiphilum.

Genetic redundancy is seen in a rTCA (reverse of TCA cycle), which is 
functionally redundant to CBB cycle.  Ferredoxin-dependent carboxylases
(oxygen-sensitive) means rTCA occurs in anaerobic habitats. Hydrogenobacter
thermophilus TK-6 has 2 isoforms of oxoglutarate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase
(the analog in higher eukaryotes is alpha-ketoglutarate, using NAD+)
