Title: Introductory General Chemistry - (CHEM-3A)
Section #: 35438 - Units: 4.00
Instructor: Nicholas Corsepius
Meeting Days/Times: MW 4:30PM-5:45PM
W 6:00PM-8:50PM
Start Date: 08/08/2022 - End Date: 12/09/2022
Term: 2022FA
Room: FH 103
S 250
Census Date: 08/29/2022
PreRequisites/CoRequisites and Advisories
Prerequisite

See the section at the end of this syllabus for some detail about the level 
of mathematics you should know for this course.

Welcome Message

Welcome to Chemistry 3A:

I am excited to have you in my class this semester. Chemistry course is 
cumulative in that concepts build on each other. Based on my experience 
teaching the course, I recommend that you remain on top of the material 
covered daily. This is a 4-credit hour course, you are therefore expected
to spend 8 hours outside classroom every day reviewing notes, prepping for
class/lab, working on homework/worksheet etc.

A normal part of learning is forgetting and making mistake. I have structured
this course to give you opportunities for practice as we progress
through the course. All I ask is that you try to learn from your mistakes and
never be afraid to ask questions.

The "Lecture" component of the course will consist of in-person lectures and
a mix of in-person and online assignments. Each week, new material will be 
delivered and a series of formative assignments assigned to help you practice 
the material. Each unit will be concluded with a summative exam consisting 
of about 3-4 chapters worth of material.

The "Lab" component of the course will consist of in-person hands-on laboratory
experiments and inperson worksheet assignments. There will be a lab practical
at the end of the semester that tests your hands-on laboratory abilities.

The Final Exam for the course will be a nationally standardized ACS Final Exam.
If applied, the curve for the Final Exam will be based on the national rankings
of student performance.

The course structure is subject to change.

Research shows that students with a growth mindset are more likely to reach
their academic goals. Therefore, seek out opportunities to improve your grades.
That means seeking out to learn more from peers through study groups, attending
office hours, taking advantage of college programs. Below is a list
of opportunity available to you:

ETC Sessions - ETC Session schedule will be established at the beginning of
the semester.
Tutoring Center: Tutorial center provides peer assisted learning on a number of courses
including Chemistry through ZOOM.
GRASP - Every Friday from 8am - 2pm there is open office hours staffed by Chemistry Faculty
in S-220.

Lecture material posted is intended to help you understand key concepts, 
but if it is your first exposure to course material, you will likely not 
absorb much of what is covered because learning takes many cycles.
Attend lectures and take notes.

Complete Canvas lecture assignments.

Watch posted lecture videos to help review problematic concepts.

Use your textbook as a reference when you need an alternative explanation of
the material.

The index is the most important part of any textbook. Skim through provided
lecture notes posted on Canvas relating to each lecture assignment.

Redo worked examples in handout notes and attempt practice problems
in textbook. Make note of what doesn’t make sense and visit Office Hours.

Work on more practice problems from the textbook.

Complete online homework assignments.

Instructor
Name: Nicholas Corsepius
Email address: nicholas.corsepius@fresnocitycollege.edu
Phone: 559-442-8031
Comments
If you cannot meet during normal office hours, send me an email and we can arrange to meet outside
of office hours. I strive to make myself widely available over Zoom.

Office Hours for Students
Office Hours
Monday - 2:30 pm - 4:30 pm in T-110B
Friday - 12:00 pm - 2:00 pm in S-220

Course Description
Chemistry for applied science and non-science majors. The scientific method; chemical computations; composition of
matter, energy, and physical and chemical changes; fundamental laws and principles; atomic and molecular structure;
bonding; inorganic nomenclature, kinetic molecular theory, gas laws, solutions, acid-base theories, oxidation-reduction,
equilibrium, nuclear chemistry, and qualitative and quantitative theories and techniques.

Course Objectives
1. Identify and apply the steps of the scientific method.
2. Use and estimate the magnitude of units in the metric system.
3. Perform chemical computations and apply dimensional analysis.
4. Use and interpret the periodic table.
5. Apply nomenclature to naming and writing of chemical formulas of common ions and compounds.
6. Classify elements, common ions, and compounds given the name or the chemical formula.
7. Classify and construct balanced chemical reaction equations.
8. Use fundamental laws, principles, and theories to predict and evaluate the structure and properties of elements, compounds, and ions.
9. Apply dynamic equilibrium concepts to evaluate the equilibrium distribution of reactants and products in chemical equilibrium reactions and perform equilibrium calculations.
10. Use atomic theory and radioactivity concepts to evaluate properties of elements and their isotopes. 
11. Operate safely in a laboratory environment and use basic equipment to make measurements and collect data for processing.


Student Learning Outcomes
1. Apply appropriate theories and techniques to solve quantitative problems.
2. Apply appropriate theories and techniques to solve qualitative problems.
3. Collect, record, organize, and analyze experimental data, and recognize the limitations of
 measurements.
Required Texts/Materials

Introductory Chemistry
9781264246243
Burdge
McGraw-Hill
2nd
Optional Text/Materials

Calculator
Any scientific calculator is acceptable as long as it DOES NOT have graphing and/or programmable
capabilities. Try to learn and practice how to use an actual scientific calculator in the first week of the
session.


Attendance Policy
Attendance is mandatory to lecture and lab. Attendance will be taken at the start of each class.

Excused Absences
Absences may be excused if: 1) you notify me within 24 hours of the absence, 
2) the absence is short term, 3) there is a serious and compelling reason for 
missing the class, and 4) documentation is provided proving the absence is 
serious and compelling. Simply stating you have a "family emergency" or 
"don't feel well" is not grounds for an excused absence. You must provide
documentation, such as a doctors note, covid test, or some other proof of 
your serious and compelling reason for missing class.

Lecture Absences
Lecture attendance is considered mandatory. Despite lecture videos being 
posted, these are not meant to be a substitute for attending lecture. 
You are responsible for all material delivered during lecture, regardless 
of whether or not there is a corresponding lecture video. You do not need to
provide documentation for an excused absence to missed lectures. Students 
are responsible for all material and assignments covered during their absence.

Exam Absences
Exam attendance is mandatory. In order to have an absence excused on an exam
day, you must follow the rules listed above under Excused Absences. Exams 
cannot be taken online. They may be made-up as agreed upon with your instructor. 
Your instructor may, at their discretion, decided to instead replace your 
exam grade by an average of your other three lecture exam scores and ACS
Final. Unexcused absences will result in a zero for the exam score.

Final Exam Absences
Final Exam attendance is mandatory. You cannot pass the class without
completing the Final Exam.

Lab Absences
Lab attendance is mandatory. In order to have a lab absence excused, you
must follow the rules listed above under Excused Absences. Worksheets 
missed due to an excused absence must be made up before a negotiated due 
date with the instructor. These must be made up during Office Hours or GRASP.
Lab attendance is mandatory. In order to have a lab absence excused, 
you must follow the rules listed above under Excused Absences. Hands-on 
experiments missed due to Excused Absences cannot be made-up. Instead, 
there will be a blanket policy of excusing your lowest two scoring lab 
assignments. If you do miss an experiment, you are still required to 
complete the Lab Notebook assignment or you will earn a zero. Note that due 
to CID guidelines, laboratory experiments are a required component of the
course. You must complete a minimum of 8 laboratory experiments in-person
to pass the course. Failure to complete 8 experiments will result in a
failing grade for the course. See Class Outline for a list of all
laboratory experiments. Instead of excusing absences from experiments,
there will be a blanket policy of excusing your two lowest scoring experiments
at the end of the semester. Students are responsible
for all material covered during their absence.

Drop Policy & Deadlines
Drop Policy:

You may be dropped from the course if you do not attend the first day of
class. You may be dropped from the course if you do not attend class for
2 consecutive weeks. Anyone registered for the class
after the Drop with a W date will receive a letter grade in the course.

Deadlines:
Census Date: 08/29/2022
1. Fee reversal/refund - 8/19/2022
2. Add or drop in person to avoid W - 8/28/2022
3. Add or drop using WebAdvisor to avoid W - 8/28/2022
4. Drop with a ‘W’ in person or on WebAdvisor (to avoid a letter grade) - 10/7/2022

Holidays
9/5/2022 - Labor Day
11/11/2022 - Veterans Day
11/24/2022 - 11/25/2022 - Thanksgiving Break
See the official Fall 2022 important Dates page for a complete list.

Participation and Engagement

Chemistry is a difficult subject. That makes your participation with in-class
and online discussions, quizzes, and homework even more important. These are
explained in more detail in the Assignments section of the syllabus.
Additionally, I will constantly be making myself available for questions and
further explanation of topics. I am very responsive over email, and am always
happy to hop on Zoom and go over a lecture topic in further detail with you
upon request.

Class Outline/Calendar
Please note that this Schedule is subject to change at the instructor's discretion. Please see
the Schedule page on Canvas for the most up-to-date Lecture, Lab, and Exam schedule.
Lecture Schedule
Week Date Chapter Lecture 1 Lecture 2
Week 1 8-Aug 1 Course Introduction Isotopes and Atomic Mass
Week 2 15-Aug 3 Ionic Compounds Covalent Compounds
Week 3 22-Aug 4 Significant Figures Unit Conversions
Week 4 29-Aug 5 The Mole Molar Mass
Week 5 5-Sep Review Exam 1
Week 6 12-Sep 7 Lewis Structures VSEPR
Week 7 19-Sep 8 Ideal Gas Law Alternative Gas Laws
Week 8 26-Sep 9 Concentration of Solutions Dilutions
Week 9 3-Oct Review Exam 2
Week 10 10-Oct 10 Balancing Chemical Equations Types of Reactions
Week 11 17-Oct 11 
Reaction Stoichiometry
Aqueous and Gaseous
Reactions
Week 12 24-Oct 11 & 13 Stoichiometry Practice Chemical Equilibria
Week 13 31-Oct Review Exam 3
Week 14 7-Nov 12 Solids and Liquids Specific Heat
Week 15 14-Nov 6
Introduction to Acids and
Bases pH Scale
Week 16 21-Nov 2 & 16 
Electron Configurations Periodic Trends/ Nuclear
Week 17 28-Nov Review Exam 4
Week 18 5-Dec Finals Week Finals Week

Lab Schedule
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
8-Aug
Course
Introduction 9-Aug
Course
Introduction 10-Aug
Course
Introduction 11-Aug
Course
Introduction
15-Aug
Atoms and
Elements
Worksheet 16-Aug
Atoms and
Elements
Worksheet 17-Aug
Atoms and
Elements
Worksheet 18-Aug
Atoms and
Elements
Worksheet
22-Aug
Naming
Worksheet 23-Aug
Naming
Worksheet 24-Aug
Naming
Worksheet 25-Aug
Naming
Worksheet
29-Aug Making
Measurements
30-Aug Making
Measurements
31-Aug Making
Measurements
1-Sep Making
Measurements
1 1 1 1
5-Sep Holiday 6-Sep
Making
Measurements
2 7-Sep
Making
Measurements
2 8-Sep
Making
Measurements
2
12-Sep
Empirical
Formulas 13-Sep
Empirical
Formulas 14-Sep
Empirical
Formulas 15-Sep
Empirical
Formulas
19-Sep
Lewis
Structures 20-Sep
Lewis
Structures 21-Sep
Lewis
Structures 22-Sep
Lewis
Structures
26-Sep
Making
Measurements
2 27-Sep
Gases
Worksheet 28-Sep
Gases
Worksheet 29-Sep
Gases
Worksheet
3-Oct
NaCl Standard
Curve 4-Oct
NaCl Standard
Curve 5-Oct
NaCl Standard
Curve 6-Oct
NaCl Standard
Curve
10-Oct
Chemical
Reactions
Worksheet 11-Oct
Chemical
Reactions
Worksheet 12-Oct
Chemical
Reactions
Worksheet 13-Oct
Chemical
Reactions
Worksheet
17-Oct
Types of
Reactions 18-Oct
Types of
Reactions 19-Oct
Types of
Reactions 20-Oct
Types of
Reactions
24-Oct
Stoichiometry
Worksheet 25-Oct
Stoichiometry
Worksheet 26-Oct
Stoichiometry
Worksheet 27-Oct
Stoichiometry
Worksheet
31-Oct
Stoichiometric
Gas
Production 1-Nov
Stoichiometric
Gas
Production 2-Nov
Stoichiometric
Gas
Production 3-Nov
Stoichiometric
Gas
Production
7-Nov
Determination
of Citric Acid in
Soda 8-Nov
Determination
of Citric Acid in
Soda 9-Nov
Determination
of Citric Acid in
Soda 10-Nov
Determination
of Citric Acid in
Soda
14-Nov Calorimetry 15-Nov Calorimetry 16-Nov Calorimetry 17-Nov Calorimetry
21-Nov Practical 22-Nov Practical 23-Nov Practical 24-Nov Holiday
28-Nov ACS Practice 29-Nov ACS Practice 30-Nov ACS Practice 1-Dec Practical
5-Dec
Finals Week -
No Lab 6-Dec
Finals Week -
No Lab 7-Dec
Finals Week -
No Lab 8-Dec
Finals Week -
No Lab

Exams and Assignments
Each week, you will have some combination of the following assignments. 
The point value associated with each assignment is approximate and subject 
to change at the instructors discretion. The Canvas grade book will be kept 
up-to-date with your current grade before or at the end of each unit.
Lecture Assignments - 5 pts/lecture - Each lecture will have some 
associated assignment integrated into Canvas or ALEKS that will serve as 
practice for that material.

ALEKS Homework - 10 pts/chapter - Each chapter will have an associated ALEKS
assignment. These will be worth 10 points. Please ignore the ALEKS internal
grade book and only pay attention to you Canvas grade book.

Lab Experiments - 20-25 pts each - Each week will have a laboratory component.
Most weeks these will be hands-on laboratory experiments. These experiments 
will consist of pre-lab and post-lab assignments. Make sure to read the 
Attendance Policy regarding laboratory experiments. 
Worksheets - 20 pts each - Some labs will be dedicated to completing 
worksheets that cover lecture
material. Make sure to read the attendance policy regarding worksheets.
Lab Practicals - 50 pts - At the end of the semester, there will be a Lab 
Practical testing your knowledge and technique of previously performed labs.

Exams - 100 pts each - There will be four exams given throughout the
semester. Each exam will cover 3-4 chapters.

Final Exam - 200 pts - There will be an in-person ACS Final exam given
at the end of the semester and will be cumulative for the entire course.

Accommodation for Students with Disabilities
Fresno City College is committed to creating accessible learning environments
consistent with federal and state law. To obtain academic adjustments or 
auxiliary aids, students must be registered with the DSP&S office on campus.
DSP&S can be reached at (559) 442-8237 and is located in Building A. All
information is kept confidential. If you are already registered with the
DSP&S office, please provide your Notice of Accommodation form to me as
soon as possible, preferably during the first two weeks of class.

Your success is important to me. If your accommodation includes taking the
tests in the DSP&S office, it is your responsibility to make an appointment
to take the test on or before the day and time of the in-class test and to
inform me of the appointment.
Please contact me as soon as possible if you have any questions.

Grading Scale
The following grade breakdown is subject to change at the instructor's
discretion.
The grading scale will be based on a straight percentage:
A=90% - 100%
B=80% - 89%
C=70% - 79%
D=60% - 69%
F=0%- 59%

Note: an 89.5% will round up to a 90%, but an 89.4% rounds down to 89%

The final grade breakdown is approximately:
10% Lecture Assignments
10% ALEKS
32% Lab Assignments (Pre-Lab, Post-Lab, and Lab Practical)
32% Exams
16% Final Exam

These grade breakdowns are an approximation based on my estimation of the points offered in
each category. These percentages are not fixed and subject to change.

Make Up
Any in-class assignment cannot be made up. If you have an Excused Absence 
(see Absences section) a reasonable accommodation will be made for you 
to complete the assignment. Take-home Lecture Assignments and Lab Assignments 
may be made-up but are considered late. The window of time available to turn 
in assignments late varies from assignment to assignment. The close date 
for each assignment will be clearly posted. Work will not be accepted after
the close date. See Late Work section of the syllabus for an explanation.
Laboratory experiments cannot be made-up. Instead, your lowest scoring
two labs will be dropped at the end of the semester.

Worksheets can be made up if there is an excused absence during a worksheet
lab period. The worksheet must be made up during Office Hours or some other 
negotiated in-person meeting.
Exams cannot be taken online. They may be made-up as agreed upon with your
instructor. Your instructor may, at their discretion, decided to instead replace your exam grade by an average of your
other three lecture exam scores. Unexcused absences will result in a zero for the exam score.
Missing more than one exams will result in an automatic 0 for the missed exams.
The Final Exam cannot be made-up or rescheduled. You cannot pass the class if you miss the Final
Exam.

No work, be it late, extra credit, or otherwise, will be accepted during Finals week.

Late Work
All in-class assignments cannot be turned in late.

Take-home lecture and lab assignments may be made-up but are considered late. Late work will
automatically receive a 10% penalty per day late. This penalty is built into Canvas and will not be
waived no matter the excuse. Late work will not be accepted more than 3 days after the assignment is
due. The window of time available to turn in assignments late varies from assignment to assignment.
The close date for each assignment will be clearly posted. Work will not be accepted after the close
date. No late work will be accepted during finals week.
ALEKS Objective assignments cannot be submitted late due to limitations in the ALEKS online
system. Lecture assignments through ALEKS can be turned in 1 day late with a 10% penalty.

Extra Credit
Extra credit may be offered throughout the semester at the instructors discretion. Extra credit
assignments are not available upon request. Generally speaking, there is no extra credit offered
during a normal semester.

Class Norms
This course is very rewarding, but also extremely challenging. There is a large amount of material
covered, and each concept builds off of previously learned material. Your commitment to success is of
the utmost importance. It is my job to teach you chemistry, but I cannot do so without your full
investment. My expectations are that you will dedicate the requisite time and energy each week, over
the next 18 weeks, to this course.
A college course is a marathon, not a sprint.


Academic Dishonesty Policy
Students at Fresno City College are entitled to the best education that the college can make available
to them, and they, their instructors, and their fellow students share the responsibility to ensure that this
education is honestly attained. Because cheating, plagiarism, and collusion in dishonest activities
erode the integrity of the college, each student is expected to exert an entirely honest effort in all
academic endeavors. Academic dishonesty in any form is a very serious offense and will incur serious
consequences.

Cheating
Cheating is the act or attempted act of taking an examination or performing an assigned, evaluated
task in a fraudulent or deceptive manner, such as having improper access to answers, in an attempt
to gain an unearned academic advantage. Cheating may include, but is not limited to, copying from
another’s work, supplying one’s work to another, giving or receiving copies of examinations without an
instructor’s permission, using or displaying notes or devices inappropriate to the conditions of the
examination, allowing someone other than the officially enrolled student to represent the student, or
failing to disclose research results completely.

Plagiarism
Plagiarism is a specific form of cheating and is the use of another’s words or ideas without identifying
them as such or giving credit to the source. Plagiarism may include, but is not limited to, failing to
provide complete citations and references for all work that draws on the ideas, words, or work of
others, failing to identify the contributors to work done in collaboration, submitting duplicate work to be
evaluated in different courses without the knowledge and consent of the instructors involved, or
encouraging, permitting, or assisting another to do any act that could subject him or her to discipline.
Incidents of cheating and plagiarism may result in a variety of sanctions and penalties that may range
from a failing grade on the particular examination, paper, project, or assignment in question to a failing
grade in the course, at the discretion of the instructor and depending on the severity and frequency of
the incidents.

Support Services
Services available to students:
Health Services web site
Tutorial Services web site
Psychological Services web site
RAM Pantry web site
Final Exam Date
Final Exam
Section 35433 - Tuesday 12/6/2022 at 4:00 pm
Section 35434 - Tuesday 12/6/2022 at 4:00 pm
Section 35436 - Monday 12/5/2022 at 4:00 pm
Section 35438 - Monday 12/5/2022 at 4:00 pm
See the Fall 2022 Final Exam Schedule for details.


-------------
Mathematics for Chemistry 3A

While the College's Math 3A or Math 103 courses are given as a prerequisite for this course
and you should have successfully completed it, in case you are an exception in that your
course work was not recent or is transferred, I have looked at a freely available
Online Educational Resource text used by one of the Math 103 instructors. 
This resource is on the OpenStax web site which provides 

https://openstax.org/books/intermediate-algebra-2e/pages/1-introduction

You should review the following chapters and section and do the practice
problems ("exercises") in the resource: all of 1.1-1.5, 2.1 - 2.3, 3.1 - 3.3, 3.5-3.6, 6.1, 7.1-7.5, 10.1-10.5

